The protocol:

1. There are two teams, blue team(our team), red team(the adversary). Both two teams have their space, 
    and there is a grey space(space between our space and an adversarial’ s space).

    1.1 In grey space, there are many devices(VM), some of devices belong to , some belong to the adversary.
    
    1.2 The adversary hacked some of our devices in grey space.

    1.3 The adversary uses IDS, like SNORT to detect if we are detect adversarial movements in grey sapce.


2. We use the randomized search foraging behavior exhibited by browsing ants.

    2.1 We generate ants to scout out grey space to detect adversarial movements, and at the meanwhile, 
        we evade the SNORT used by the adversary.

    2.2 The ants scan surrounding devices and get ip addresses of these devices(if hard, 
        maybe just assume we already know the ip addresses of these devices)

    2.3 When the ant get the ip address of a device, it scans the ports of this ip address like nmap. 
        But, we will change the speed of scanning, especially slow down the speed, so that our scanning 
        would not be detected by SNORT.

    2.4 When the ant reaches a device, it will have a record <pheromone(int), boolean value(boolean), 
        other information(struct)>, and sends this record to our centeral VM.

        2.4.1 When the ant reaches a device, it adds the pheromone value by 10. The pheromone will evaperate 
              over time to avoid unlimited accumulation of trails over some component. But the minimum value 
              of pheromone is 1 indicating an explored path, but undesirable. 
        
        2.4.2 If the ant finds there is a adversary movement in the device, it will set boolean value to T, 
              and increases the pheromone by 10. Otherwise, it will set bollean value to F.

        2.4.3 The ant will record some information as a struct, such as the time stamp, the ip address of 
              the device, the type of adversary movement.

    2.5 The ant scans surrounding devices over a period of time, and gets the pheromone of these devices, 
        it makes a calculation: it firstly adds all the pheromones from scanned devices by 1(in case of 0 pheromone), 
        then calculate the sum of the pheromones. Finally, it chooses a device to detect according to the proportion 
        of pheromone concentration of these devices. 

        2.5.1 For example: if an ant scans two devices A,B,C, A has 0 pheromone, B has 20 pheromones, 
              C has 9 pheromone. The ant makes a calculation: 0+1=1, 20+1 =21, 9+1 =10. 1+21+10=32. 
              So, it has 1/32 percent chance of detecting A. It has 21/32 percent chance of detecting B. 
              It has 10/32 percent chance of detecting C.


3. After a certain time, we can get a path according to pheromone concentration. The devices in this path 
   is more likely be hacked by the adversary.
